# HungryRat
An audio distortion effect, designed for Eurorack modular synthesizer

This distortion effect has the core of a Proco Rat, with component values surrounding the op amp identical to the pedal. This project's PCB uses a through-hole DIP-8 dual op amp with the standard pinout, which means the original LM308 or indeed any single op amp won't work. However, with a DIP-8 socket installed, the user can swap out any dual-package op amp, from antique to thorougly modern, and choose their favorite. The main variable that comes into play with any op amp in this circuit (given standard use) is slew rate. To make up for different op amp's specifications here, there is a through-hole spot for a capacitor which may be swapped out (it would be great to install two one-pin sockets in this area for experimentation) to reduce the slew rate of any op amp to adjust the sound of this effect.

Before getting to the most interesting feature of this effect, let's talk about the tone control -- the original Rat had a simple one-pole low-pass filter for the "TONE" knob. The HungryRat features a two-channel tone circuit, with treble and bass. The end user can select one of two op amps to serve as the active component of the tone control.

And here's the killer feature of this effect. The user may voltage-starve the op amp which controls distortion and (optionally) the tone control. Musicians have loved the sound of distortion pedals -- the Proco Rat in particular -- when the 9V batteries they're using are on the edge of death. The sound can be warmer, fuzzier, full of character. The op amp (the best availabe equivalent to the original seems to be the rather expensive TLC2262) in the HungryRat can be starved of voltage *and* current, and this setting can be done with a knob on the panel, or with a control voltage. The unpredictable sound of a circuit being starved of power can be used as a sort of glitchfilth VCA.

There are jumpers on the PCB to allow the user to select which op amp will be used for the active portion of the tone control. The voltage being processed from the distortion stage will only be about 1.4V peak to peak (the signal is clipped by a pair of diodes *after* the op amp has its way with the signal) so the effect of starving just the distortion stage will be more mild. The tone-control op amp is working with a full 10V peak-to-peak, so starving the amp while it's working with a signal that hot will sound more dramatic. Perhaps the user would prefer a cleaner tone stage, so jumpers may be swapped around to select a standard TL072, getting full Eurorack voltage with plenty of overhead, as the active portion of the the tone control.
